# Jarić & Roberts' (2014) "Solow" model

Equations 7-10 from Jarić & Roberts 2014. Estimates a p-value for
testing competing hypotheses of extinction/non-extinction, and a
one-sided \\1 - \alpha\\ confidence interval and point estimate on the
time of extinction. Sighting uncertainty is incorporated.

## Usage

``` r
JR14F1(
  records,
  alpha = 0.05,
  init.time = min(records$time),
  test.time = as.numeric(format(Sys.Date(), "%Y"))
)
```

## Arguments

- records:

  sighting records in `ucon` format (see
  [`convert_dodo`](https://louis-backstrom.github.io/dodo/reference/convert_dodo.md)
  for details).

- alpha:

  desired significance level (defaults to \\\alpha = 0.05\\) of the
  \\1 - \alpha\\ confidence interval.

- init.time:

  start of the observation period. Defaults to the time of the first
  sighting, in which case this sighting is removed from the record.

- test.time:

  end of the observation period, typically the present day (defaults to
  the current year).

## Value

a `list` object with the original parameters and the p-value, point
estimate, and confidence interval included as elements. The confidence
interval is a two-element numeric vector called `conf.int`.

## Note

Sampling effort is assumed to be constant. Although the method in Jarić
& Roberts 2014 is theoretically applicable to other base models, this
package only includes the Solow 1993a variant, as it is the focus of the
original paper.

## References

**Key Reference**

Jarić, I., & Roberts, D. L. (2014). Accounting for observation
reliability when inferring extinction based on sighting records.
*Biodiversity and* *Conservation*, 23(11), 2801-2815.
[doi:10.1007/s10531-014-0749-8](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10531-014-0749-8)

**Other References**

Solow, A. R. (1993). Inferring Extinction from Sighting Data. *Ecology*,
74(3), 962-964. [doi:10.2307/1940821](https://doi.org/10.2307/1940821)

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Run an example analysis using the Slender-billed Curlew data
JR14F1(curlew$ucon, init.time = 1817, test.time = 2022)
} # }
```
