# Lee et al.'s (2014) "Variable reliability" model

The model from Lee et al. 2014, incorporating uncertain sightings.
Estimates a posterior probability that the species is extant at the end
of the observation period, and a point estimate and one-tailed \\1 -
\alpha\\ credible interval on the time of extinction, conditional on
extinction occurring before the end of the observation period.

## Usage

``` r
LE14B2(
  records,
  alpha = 0.05,
  init.time,
  n.chains = 4,
  n.iter = 15000,
  n.burnin = 5000,
  n.thin = 10
)
```

## Arguments

- records:

  sighting records in `ubin` format (see
  [`convert_dodo`](https://louis-backstrom.github.io/dodo/reference/convert_dodo.md)
  for details).

- alpha:

  desired threshold level (defaults to \\\alpha = 0.05\\) of the \\1 -
  \alpha\\ credible interval.

- init.time:

  start of the observation period.

- n.chains:

  number of MCMC chains to run. Defaults to 4.

- n.iter:

  number of iterations in each chain. Defaults to 15,000.

- n.burnin:

  number of iterations to discard as burn-in. Defaults to 5,000.

- n.thin:

  thinning rate. Defaults to 10.

## Value

a `list` object with the original parameters and the p(extant), point
estimate, and credible interval included as elements. The credible
interval is a two-element numeric vector called `cred.int`.

## Note

Sampling effort is assumed to be constant. Uses JAGS instead of BUGS.

## References

**Key Reference**

Lee, T. E., McCarthy, M. A., Wintle, B. A., Bode, M., Roberts, D. L., &
Burgman, M. A. (2014). Inferring extinctions from sighting records of
variable reliability. *Journal of Applied Ecology*, 51(1), 251-258.
[doi:10.1111/1365-2664.12144](https://doi.org/10.1111/1365-2664.12144)

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
# Run the example analysis from Lee et al. 2014
LE14B2(lee_s1, init.time = 1)
# Run an example analysis using the Slender-billed Curlew data
LE14B2(curlew$ubin, init.time = 1817)
} # }
```
